Project Proposals: CS 175, Winter 2015

 Due date: 5pm, Friday January 30thGeneral Guidelines on Writing the ProposalPlease use the following project proposal template
for your proposal. Your proposal should be at least 2 pages and no more
than 3 pages long.  Note that this template is intended to help
you in thinking about and organizing the different aspects of your
project - if you need to add an additional section in the template for
your project, that is fine - it is intended as a guideline. 
Project proposals will be graded like a homework assignment and
receive a weight of 20% of your overall grade.  Proposals will primarily be graded
on (a) clarity (is it clear what will be done in this project?) and
(b) completeness (does the proposal address all of
the important aspects of the proposed project?)
All students need to be part of a
project team. 2-person or 3-person teams are allowed. Only one project
proposal should be uploaded per project (include
all team member names in the proposal) - all team members will get the same grade for
the proposal.Important:
at this stage of the quarter it will be impossible for you to plan out
every detail of the project - there are likely to be surprises and
unanticipated changes to the plan along the way.  For example, you
might find that the initial data set you chose is not really suitable
and need to change data sets. Or that the algorithm you planned to
investigate is not really suitable to the task and need to change to
another algorithm. Or that the problem you are addressing is too
difficult and that you need to pick a simpler one. This is all
understandable and to be expected. Given this, your project proposal
should be your best estimate at this time of what your project will be
about - with the realization that there may need to be changes and
adjustments along the way. Project TopicsFor
additional suggestions on project topics see the lecture slides from
week 2 and refer to the "background reading and links" pages on the
class Web site.  What and where to submit:  Please submit your project report in Word or rtf format to the EEE project proposal dropbox, by 5pm Friday January 30th.    