Biomorphic Computing

Winter 2004

Professor: Bill
Tomlinson

Tuesdays 2:00-4:50pm,
ICS 189

Final Project

Please create a novel computational artifact based on one or
more biological principles.  The conception and development of this artifact
should be informed by current research in biology and computing. 

Stage 1: Proposal

Generate a bibliography of at least 10 articles, at least
two prior to 1970 and two after 2002, approximately half on biology and half on
computational implementations.  Read closely 3 or more articles from that
bibliography, at least one prior to 1970 and at least one after 2002.  Write a
one page proposal of your final project.  Email the proposal and the
bibliography to wmt@uci.edu by Monday, Feb. 16, 5:00pm.  Present the proposal
in class on Tuesday, Feb. 17.  You will each have 10-15 minutes to present plus
5-10 minutes for discussion. Your presentation should include:

a description of the projecta description of relevant
     areas of biology and computing, informed by the papers you reada timeline for the entire
     projectany problems you can foresee.

Stage 2: Prototype

Implement a working, if rough, version of your final
project. In addition, please read at least one additional paper that becomes
relevant during your implementation (may or may not be from your original
bibliography).  Bring your prototype to class on March 2, and describe it to
the class.  (Make sure to test that it runs in CS189.)  Your presentation
should be 10-15 minutes long plus 5-10 minutes for discussion, and should
include:

a demonstration of the
     prototypea description of the
     additional paper(s) you read, and why they were relevanta timeline for the remaining
     two weeksany problems you are currently
     havingany problems you can foresee.

Stage 3: Final

Deliver your completed project to class on March 16. Your
presentation should be 15 minutes long, with 5 minutes for Q&A, and should:

demonstrate the completed
     projectoffer thoughts on parts of the
     project that went smoothly or not-so-smoothlydiscuss potential future work.

Also, please create a web site presenting the project,
including the proposal, bibliography and a text description of the final
version.  Images, diagrams, audio and video on the web site are encouraged. 
Email the URL to wmt@uci.edu by March 19 at 5:00pm.

 

Good luck, and please email wmt@uci.edu with any questions!