Inf 235: Advanced User Interface Architecture
Spring 2008
Professor Bill Tomlinson	
	Return to Syllabus

Final Project


	Summary

Over the 10 weeks, you will work in teams (up to three students per team) to undertake an implementation and/or analysis project that deals with the topics of the course. For example:
create an interactive software system (such as a web site)
build or modify a computational device
design, deploy, and analyze results from a survey
design, conduct, and analyze results from a series of interviews
other (please check with Prof. Tomlinson to confirm)

This project should relate to both user interface architecture and environmental themes.


Specific assignments
April 18 (5pm): Team formation
Email Prof. Tomlinson a list of your team members.  Only one person per group needs to send the email, but please CC the other group mates.  

April 23: IRB (optional but encouraged)
If the project involves human subjects and you wish to be able to publish the results, you should have submitted an IRB proposal.  (Note that this requires a department head's signature, so please plan accordingly.)

May 5: Proposal
Give 15-20 minute presentation (10-15 minutes lecture, 5 minutes Q&A) about the idea, implementation/deployment, evaluation/analysis, impact, division of labor, resources needed, and timeline.
(5% of course grade)

May 19: Prototype 
Give 15-20 minute presentation (10-15 minutes lecture, 5 minutes Q&A) about progress, challenges encountered, changes made to address those challenges, plan for remainder of quarter.
(5% of course grade)

June 2: Presentation 
Give 15-20 minute presentation (10-15 minutes lecture, 5 minutes Q&A) presenting the final project and summarizing the results.
(5% of course grade)

June 9 (5pm): Write-up
Academic paper describing the project. CHI Work-in-Progress format (~3000 words). Should include 5-10 references.  Other conference format could be fine too - please check with Prof. Tomlinson to confirm.
(25% of course grade)