Inf 235: Advanced User Interface Architecture
Spring 2008
Professor Bill Tomlinson
Return to Syllabus


Class Presentation Assignment


	Summary

Teams of three or four students will work together to lead class discussion around one particular topic. This discussion will be informed by two readings, one chosen in advance by Prof. Tomlinson, and the other determined by the group itself.  In addition, the discussion should involve at least one interface artifact of some kind (e.g., web site, mobile phone). The goal is to allow your team to explore some topic deeply, and to engage the class in a discussion of that topic.


Specific assignments
At least ten days before class:
Email Prof. Tomlinson references for at least three potential readings, and a one-paragraph draft of the specific focus for the class discussion. (5% of course grade) 

At least one week before class:
Email Prof. Tomlinson an annotated bibliography of three readings above (at least one written by each student).  Indicate one that should be assigned to rest of class, including either a web link or pdf. (5% of course grade)

By 5pm on the Friday before class:
Email Prof. Tomlinson a summary (~500 words) of the discussion topic for the class.  Should include a thesis statement (some stance on the ideas surrounding the readings) and brief discussion of it, at least three discussion points for each of the two readings, and documentation of the user interface artifact (e.g., screen shots from a web site, pics of mobile phone, etc.) that will be used during class.  In addition to the summary, please email a brief timeline of how the two hours and forty minutes of class time will be used. (Remember to include a ten-minute break.) (5% of course grade)

In class: 
	Lead in-class discussion, including specific consideration of strengths and weaknesses of the two papers, the relationship between the papers, a presentation of the user interface artifact, and the relationship between the papers and the artifact.  Each of the students in the group should take primary responsibility for leading at least one section.
	(25% of course grade)

Note: 
Alternate approaches to this assignment are welcome (e.g., field trips, interactive group exercises), if your group is interested in handling logistics, etc.  Please check with Prof. Tomlinson before doing anything too non-standard, to make sure it's viable, develop a mutually agreeable grading process, etc.