Autonomous Characters

Fall 2003

Tuesdays 3:00-5:50pm

Location: HIB335

Directions for Running the Demo

Note: These directions may not correspond exactly to the
versions of software that you will be using. 
Therefore, it is important that you follow the spirit of the directions,
rather than the exact letter of them. 
If you are having trouble, please ask any classmates who are nearby, or
email me (wmt@uci.edu) and I will do my best
to help.

 

Make
     sure you are logged in as ACE_<usernumber>, rather than as visitor.Make
     sure you have compiled the demo. 
     See the Directions for Compiling the Codebase to do that.Start
     meny->run->Type “cmd” (which stands for “command”)Type
     “c:” and hit return.Type
     “cd c:/files/ACE/ACE_<usernumber>/code” to switch into your
     directory (or whatever your directory is)(FIRST
     TIME) -> right click menu bar of command window and choose
     Properties.  Turn on options
     ->quickedit mode, and change Layout tab -> screen buffer size height
     to be 9999.  When asked, save
     properties for future windows with the same title. (FIRST TIME) -> Type “notepad
     runner.bat”(FIRST
     TIME) -> Change lines 2 and 4 to point to your code and art
     directories.(FIRST
     TIME) -> Save and close it.Type
     “runner” and press return.  Demo
     should start.  If it does not,
     track down the last thing that happened before it crashed, which is a good
     place to start for debugging.Camera
     steering is done using the arrow keys and page-up and page-down.  The main graphics screen must be the
     top-most window in order for the camera controls to work.To
     quit demo, bring the command window to the top and hit Ctrl-C twice.Try
     using the runner with some command line options:“runner
      –fullScreen”“runner
      –numPeople 01 5” 
      (this is in the format “-numPeople userNumber numberOfThatType”.)
 Note:
     hitting up-arrow in the command window will allow you to scroll through
     the recent commands you’ve typed in. 
     It’s useful for not having to type “runner” all the time.Note
     2:  If you turn on the sound, they
     should beep when they’re happy.