Women in Information and Computer Sciences
					
				
				A student organization at UCI dedicated to helping women succeed in the technological world
			
					
		
	
	
			
			
			PreviousNext
		
			
		
				
			
		
	
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
		
				
					
	
	
					
			

			
			  				Skip to content
								HomeWICS News
Events CalendarWeekly Blogsinit (together)
Join Us!
Membership Signup
	Apply to WICS Committee
Mentorship ProgramProject Development
	Web Development Projects (Fall 2013)Android App Projects (Winter 2014)PowerPoint Slides

About WICS
What We DoCurrent Officers
	Previous Officers

Contact Us
Contact FormSupport Us
			
		
	

	

		
			

			

				
					? Android App Finale
					WICS is Invited to Western Digital ?
				

				
					WICS First General Spring Quarter Meeting

					
						Posted on 04/14/2014 by Angela Liu					

					
						The first general meeting of the quarter was held on Thursday, April 3rd. With the last quarter wrapped up with the Android Development workshops, this quarter brings more projects, information sessions, and social events for members to look forward to!
In terms of professional development, WICS will be holding a total of 5 Python Project Meetings on Mondays at 6:30pm. There will also be a couple tech talks and tours, such as the Western Digital Tour, The Portal Open House, and the WITI Talk on Agile Development. There are also quite a few social events planned for WICS members to network and socialize with other students. A few events, just to name, are the ICS Quarterly Potluck, Bowling, and the SWE & Phi Sigma Rho Mixer.
Some major events of this quarter are the CWIC SoCal, ICS Day, and HackUCI! Check out more information on our events calendar and our Facebook page. Also, if you want to be more involved with WICS and interested in writing weekly blogs and recaps of the events, fill out this form and you will get an email with more information!

											


					
						This entry was posted in WICS Meeting. Bookmark the permalink.											
				

				
					? Android App Finale
					WICS is Invited to Western Digital ?
				

				
			



		



			
		


		
			
				
					Search for:
					
					
				
						
			
			
								Announcements				
				Job Opportunities Subscription If you want to receive information about job opportunities sign up at http://goo.gl/ZHqJ4f.

			
			Upcoming Events
	

								
				
					Week 7: ICS Day
				

								

				
				
					May 14 @ 8:00 am - 5:00 pm				

				

			

								
				
					Week 9: ICS Potluck
				

								

				
				
					May 27 @ 7:00 pm - 9:00 pm				

				

			

	
		View All Events
	

			Recent Posts		
				WICS Receives NCWIT Seed Fund!
							02/11/2015
						
				Adobe Info Session
							02/03/2015
						
		
		


		
			Blog Posts CategoriesSelect Categoryinit (together)  (1)News  (60)   Info Session  (13)   Social Event  (12)   Tour  (3)   WICS Meeting  (14)      Project Meeting  (3)   Workshop  (15)



Follow Us!			
		
	
						
							
						
					
						
							
						
					
						
							
						
					
						
							
						
					

			
		
		

	

	
		



			

				
								Questions or comments? Contact us
		
				




			

			
				
					Women in Information and Computer Sciences				
			

			
				Copyright © 2015 WICS				Proudly powered by WordPress.