Women in Information and Computer Sciences
					
				
				A student organization at UCI dedicated to helping women succeed in the technological world
			
					
		
	
	
			
			
			PreviousNext
		
			
		
				
			
		
	
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
		
				
					
	
	
					
			

			
			  				Skip to content
								HomeWICS News
Events CalendarWeekly Blogsinit (together)
Join Us!
Membership Signup
	Apply to WICS Committee
Mentorship ProgramProject Development
	Web Development Projects (Fall 2013)Android App Projects (Winter 2014)PowerPoint Slides

About WICS
What We DoCurrent Officers
	Previous Officers

Contact Us
Contact FormSupport Us
			
		
	

	

		
			

			

				
					? WITI Comes to UCI
					Spring Potluck with ICS Clubs ?
				

				
					WICS Launches a Flappy Bird Python Project

					
						Posted on 04/28/2014 by Angela Liu					

					
						Written by: Katie Khuu
For this quarter’s programming project, WICS has decided to make a Python version of the popular Flappy Bird game. The first project meeting on April 21st had over 70 attendees, a combination of WICS members, non-members, and non-UCI students.
To start off, WICS guided them with a PowerPoint presentation on how to download Python and Pygame modules and explained how to start the project. WICS board members also displayed an example of their completed project–a flying anteater in a cape moving through narrow pillars–to encourage participants and to promote creative designs. Help was available for those that had difficulty installing or getting started. After the presentation, there were downtime for attendees to chat and work with others. Food was available as a quick boost.
The Flappy Bird Python project will span for 5 weeks with tutorials included every week for those that are new to the Python language. This is a great way to get programming practice for anyone thinking about attending hackUCI or have already signed up.
For more information and updates about the spring project, join the WICS project group.
         « prev      1   2      next » (8 Photos)
											


					
						This entry was posted in Project Meeting. Bookmark the permalink.											
				

				
					? WITI Comes to UCI
					Spring Potluck with ICS Clubs ?
				

				
			



		



			
		


		
			
				
					Search for:
					
					
				
						
			
			
								Announcements				
				Job Opportunities Subscription If you want to receive information about job opportunities sign up at http://goo.gl/ZHqJ4f.

			
			Upcoming Events
	

								
				
					Week 7: ICS Day
				

								

				
				
					May 14 @ 8:00 am - 5:00 pm				

				

			

								
				
					Week 9: ICS Potluck
				

								

				
				
					May 27 @ 7:00 pm - 9:00 pm				

				

			

	
		View All Events
	

			Recent Posts		
				WICS Receives NCWIT Seed Fund!
							02/11/2015
						
				Adobe Info Session
							02/03/2015
						
		
		


		
			Blog Posts CategoriesSelect Categoryinit (together)  (1)News  (60)   Info Session  (13)   Social Event  (12)   Tour  (3)   WICS Meeting  (14)      Project Meeting  (3)   Workshop  (15)



Follow Us!			
		
	
						
							
						
					
						
							
						
					
						
							
						
					
						
							
						
					

			
		
		

	

	
		



			

				
								Questions or comments? Contact us
		
				




			

			
				
					Women in Information and Computer Sciences				
			

			
				Copyright © 2015 WICS				Proudly powered by WordPress.