Women in Information and Computer Sciences
					
				
				A student organization at UCI dedicated to helping women succeed in the technological world
			
					
		
	
	
			
			
			PreviousNext
		
			
		
				
			
		
	
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
		
				
					
	
	
					
			

			
			  				Skip to content
								HomeWICS News
Events CalendarWeekly Blogsinit (together)
Join Us!
Membership Signup
	Apply to WICS Committee
Mentorship ProgramProject Development
	Web Development Projects (Fall 2013)Android App Projects (Winter 2014)PowerPoint Slides

About WICS
What We DoCurrent Officers
	Previous Officers

Contact Us
Contact FormSupport Us
			
		
	

	

		
			

			

				
					? Aspire IT Camp: Techie Girls
					Annual Mentorship Program 2013 ?
				

				
					WICS Week 0: Meet and Greet

					
						Posted on 09/26/2013 by Angela Liu					

					
						Wednesday, September 25, 70 students interested in Computer Science came out to participate in the first annual WICS social event. Students, new and old alike, socialized with the WICS board members as well as each other, played board games, and won cool prizes while enjoying FREE food and drinks!
People had a chance to make some new friends, and freshmen had the opportunity to converse with upperclassmen for advice in the Computer Science field. Tammy Phan, an ICS alumni who is currently working on campus, came to talk to WICS about a tech conference in January about web application security. She gave WICS members information about open internship positions in the department she is working in and welcomed anyone to apply. WICS will be hosting plenty more similar social events throughout the year including other activities such as technical workshops and many other cool events.
Stay updated with our events to gain support and experience with your fellow classmates! WICS will be holding its annual Mentorship Mixer on the Monday of Week 1. WICS board members and an overview of future events will be introduced. RSVP on our Facebook page now and don’t forget to sign up for our Mixer!

                 « prev      1   2   3      next »  (12 Photos)
											


					
						This entry was posted in News. Bookmark the permalink.											
				

				
					? Aspire IT Camp: Techie Girls
					Annual Mentorship Program 2013 ?
				

				
			



		



			
		


		
			
				
					Search for:
					
					
				
						
			
			
								Announcements				
				Job Opportunities Subscription If you want to receive information about job opportunities sign up at http://goo.gl/ZHqJ4f.

			
			Upcoming Events
	

								
				
					Week 7: ICS Day
				

								

				
				
					May 14 @ 8:00 am - 5:00 pm				

				

			

								
				
					Week 9: ICS Potluck
				

								

				
				
					May 27 @ 7:00 pm - 9:00 pm				

				

			

	
		View All Events
	

			Recent Posts		
				WICS Receives NCWIT Seed Fund!
							02/11/2015
						
				Adobe Info Session
							02/03/2015
						
		
		


		
			Blog Posts CategoriesSelect Categoryinit (together)  (1)News  (60)   Info Session  (13)   Social Event  (12)   Tour  (3)   WICS Meeting  (14)      Project Meeting  (3)   Workshop  (15)



Follow Us!			
		
	
						
							
						
					
						
							
						
					
						
							
						
					
						
							
						
					

			
		
		

	

	
		



			

				
								Questions or comments? Contact us
		
				




			

			
				
					Women in Information and Computer Sciences				
			

			
				Copyright © 2015 WICS				Proudly powered by WordPress.