Toggle navigation
		                
		                
		                
		            

				
					
						
					

				
				
		        
					Events 
Med AppJam 2014Reverse Career Fair (RCF)ICS Day 2014
 About 
Mission & VissionGet InvolvedExecutive OfficersExec Board Portal
Contact UsCalendar of EventsICS Clubs					
		    
		  
			
			
		
	

	

			
											

		
			
				
	
		

		
			

		
		

			ICSSC Treasurer

			
				 August 6, 2014April 30, 2015  Dalton Kraatz
								
					 Executive Officers				
								
			
		

		
			Hello ICS! My name is Dalton Kraatz, and I am the new treasurer for the School of ICS’s Student Council.
As treasurer, its my duty to make sure that everyone who wins prizes at ICSSC competitions get their prizes on time, as well as making sure we have budgets and money to pay for the events. The cost of things from food to venue to even the very popular ICS Day dunk tank gets handled by treasurers like me.
In addition to payments, I also manage fundraising for future events. If any of you remember the delicious Nutella Pumpkin Cheesecakes we had in Fall Quarter last year, I will be in charge of organizing and running those events. I want to have more delicious treats on campus to enjoy all year round. We live in a boba central, and I’m sure everyone’s tired of hearing about and drinking watery $2 boba all year. Lets do something fresh, like Peppermint Hot Chocolate at Christmas or refreshing lemonades before Winter finals! Lets change as our classes do, and as the mercury rises and falls its 2 degrees a year.
But, my goal is to connect students to their dreams. When I first started at Student Council, I was skeptic. I started my first year going to about 5 clubs a week, but at the end, I learned more from ICSSC than any other club out there. I hope that you all do as well, and find a passion in something unexpected! I hope that with this change in leadership and student body, the school grows in notoriety as the school that connects people to their passions.
So, study up, write a plan, make an app, meet a new company, or learn something new with us this year! We always have our doors open to everyone, not just those inside ICS!
Have a wonderful summer, and we hope to see you at the Anteater Involvement Fair!

					

		

	    		      
	      

	          mission treasurer vision 
	      
	      
	      
		
	
				
	        
	        

	          
	          
	              	          
	          

	          
	          

	            Dalton Kraatz
	            
	                	            

	          
	          

	        
	        
			


			

    




				
		Post navigation
		
			 SecretaryStudent Events Chair 		
	
	
		
		
	


	
		
						
  
    
      
        
        
          
        
      
    
  
Subscribe to our newsletter
    Name:
    

	Email address: 
	



	
Follow us
    
    


    

    


		Upcoming ICS Events
BackNext
No events to display.		
	
			
		
	


	
		
			
				
	
	
				
			

LoginRegister
		
		
		
						
		

		
			
				
										
											
					
						ICS Student Council  All rights reserved.						Theme by Colorlib Powered by WordPress