Toggle navigation
		                
		                
		                
		            

				
					
						
					

				
				
		        
					Events 
Med AppJam 2014Reverse Career Fair (RCF)ICS Day 2014
 About 
Mission & VissionGet InvolvedExecutive OfficersExec Board Portal
Contact UsCalendar of EventsICS Clubs					
		    
		  
			
			
		
	

	

			
											

		
			
				
	
		

		
			

		
		

			Academic and Administrative Affairs (AAA) Chair

			
				 August 6, 2014October 2, 2014  Austin Sherron
								
					 Executive Officers				
								
			
		

		
			 

Hi everybody!  I’m Austin Sherron, and I’m the AAA chair in ICSSC this year.  I’ll be a third year CS major this year, and I’m planning to revitalize the AAA committee this school year.
So what is AAA?  AAA is the committee charged with bridging the divide between the ICS student body, ICS faculty (professors, lecturers, administrators, etc.), and ICS alumni.  It’s up to the members of the AAA committee—with the assistance of committees within ICSSC and groups external to ICSSC—to connect students and faculty socially, academically, and professionally.
The opportunities that AAA strives to provide students aren’t, however, arbitrary: one of the most important responsibilities of AAA revolves around student interaction.  AAA is not only responsible for ensuring mutually beneficial relations between students and faculty, but it is responsible for building the sort of relationships that students acknowledge as beneficial.  It is for this reason that AAA’s primary duty is to gauge the wants and needs of the student body, use this data to form action plans, and execute these plans with the primary intention encouraging cohesion between the ICS student body and faculty.
But enough with the boring stuff.  This year, my primary goal for me and my committee is to meet as many interesting people as possible–be they faculty, students, alumni, or Peter Anteater himself–and to end this year with lots of interesting stories and a sense that we accomplished something great.

					

		

	    	
		
	
				
	        
	        

	          
	          
	              	          
	          

	          
	          

	            Austin Sherron
	            
	                	            

	          
	          

	        
	        
			


			

    




				
		Post navigation
		
			 Projects Management ChairSecretary 		
	
	
		
		
	


	
		
						
  
    
      
        
        
          
        
      
    
  
Subscribe to our newsletter
    Name:
    

	Email address: 
	



	
Follow us
    
    


    

    


		Upcoming ICS Events
BackNext
No events to display.		
	
			
		
	


	
		
			
				
	
	
				
			

LoginRegister
		
		
		
						
		

		
			
				
										
											
					
						ICS Student Council  All rights reserved.						Theme by Colorlib Powered by WordPress