This site will look much better in a browser that supports web standards, but it is accessible to any browser or Internet device.
 





      



      

         

         

      









    

                
            
                
                    » About

                    
                    » About the School» Bren ICS Mission» Dean's Welcome» About the Bren Gift» Facts and Figures» Donald Bren Hall» Visit the Bren School» Contact Us» Equity & Diversity               
                
                
                    » Departments
                    

                    » Computer Science» Informatics» Statistics               
                
                
                    » Research
                
                
                    » Research Areas» Research Centers» Research Highlights
                
                
                    » Education
                    

                    » Graduate
                        
                            Prospective StudentsPrograms of StudyM.S. Degree OverviewPh.D. Degree OverviewAcademic Year PlanFormsPoliciesFunding & HousingComputing SupportCampus ResourcesVisit the Bren SchoolGraduate Student Handbook

                        » Undergraduate
                        
                            Academic AdvisingAcademic Year PlanPetitionsICS MajorsICS MinorsPolicies: Academic IntegrityPolicies: Academic StandingPolicies: Add, drop, & change optionsPolicies: Coursework outside UCIPolicies: Grade policyPolicies: Laptop & computer usePolicies: Withdrawal/ReadmissionGraduationICS Student LifeComputing Support
                        » Prospective Undergrad» UCI Parents               
                
                    
                    » People                      
                    
                
                    » Faculty» Staff» Graduate Students   
                 
                
                    » Community
                    
                    
                    » Alumni» Friends» Parent Programs» Leadership Council» Make a Gift» News   
                
                
                    » Get Involved
                
                
                    » Tech Talks» Information Sessions» Sponsor Projects» Leadership Council» Corporate Partners» Sponsor Interns» Tech Jobs» Butterworth Competition               
                






            




    










    Bren school home > Community > News > 
 
Brenbits Spring 2015













	
	

        		



                    
                    
                    
                    
                


            	


Spotlight

                                    Call for ICS Hall of Fame Nominations

 

	This fall, UCI will celebrate its 50th anniversary as one of the nation's leading computer science schools. To honor those alums who have made a significant impact in their profession or, in other ways, have brought distinction to the school, we are creating the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences Hall of Fame. If you know of an ICS alum who should be honored in this esteemed group, please complete the nomination form here 
before June 1, 2015. Nominations will be reviewed on a rolling basis and nominees will be notified by June 15, if not before. Nominate someone for the Hall of Fame now >
 

 

	Celebrating ICS Alumni


	It's an exciting year to be an Anteater and an ICS alum as we celebrate UCI's 50th Anniversary! ICS kicked off the year with a special reception at Homecoming 2015 that brought ICS alumni of all ages and their families back to campus for a day of fun and celebration. Check out all of our Homecoming photos 
and watch our video of the day's highlights.
 

	Then in March, ICS traveled to Sunnyvale, Calif., for our first Bay Area Alumni Reception. We were excited to meet up with over 100 ICS and engineering school alumni who came out for an evening of food; friends; networking; and talks by alumnus Larry Rowe, Dean Hal Stern, Professor Nalini Venkatasubramanian and mechanical engineering researcher Alex McDonald. "I highly value networking, as it creates a stronger alumni professional community, which in turn can give back more to the school," said alumna Nayla Nassif, who attended the event. "Giving back can be monetary, as well as in the member's field of expertise, or in recruiting from UCI graduates. I understand the limited budget times that we live in, and I admire the deans for prioritizing this reaching out effort." You can view photos from the Bay Area Reception online 
here.


                            

Features


                                        	 Taking on the telecom industry

Bayan Towfiq '06, Flowroute CEO, discusses bootstrapping a successful startup with fellow ICS alumni. Read more >



                                        	 Overseeing your online afterlife
                                    	


	Jed Brubaker's graduate research guides Facebook’s new policy on postmortem account stewardship. Read more >


                                        	 Global Game Jam
                                    	


	Informatics professor Joshua Tanenbaum brings the world’s largest game-creation event to UCI, producing seven games in 48 hours. Read more >


                                        	 New ACM Fellows
                                    	


	The Association for Computing Machinery announced that two ICS professors -- Nikil Dutt and Gene Tsudik -- have been named 2014 ACM Fellows. Read more >




In Memoriam
 

	

	
	Our heartfelt condolences go out to the loved ones of ICS alumnus Dan Fredinburg '04 who was killed in the April 25 earthquake in Nepal. Read more about Dan here >


Save the Date


                                	
                                    
									

	Join us on the evening of May 27 for Ingenuity 2015 
at the Beckman Center. The annual Ingenuity showcase features the top UCI student innovations from both ICS and the engineering school. The evening includes student project demonstrations and presentations, an awards ceremony, networking reception and a special keynote speaker. Look for additional details soon!



News
 

	ICS graduate students receive prestigious NSF fellowship >
 

	NSA, DHS again dub UCI a National Center of Academic Excellence in cybersecurity research >
 

	Ph.D. student receives DoD SMART Fellowship >


Giving

 

	In February, ICS celebrated the first anniversary of the Kleist Chair in Informatics by honoring Bob and Barbara Kleist for their generous donation. According to the Kleists, “We wanted to make a difference, like many others, and an endowed chair will provide ongoing support for medical informatics, which means ongoing support for younger generations at ICS."
 

                             
                            












Brenbits is published by the UCI Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences. To contact the editor, please email communications@ics.uci.edu.





Brenbits archive:

Fall 2014
  
     
Spring 2014
  |  
Winter 2014
  |  
Fall 2013
  
     
Summer 2013
  |     
Winter 2013
  |     
Spring 2013
  |     
Winter 2012




Copyright Inquiries |
   UCI Directory |
   Intranet |
   
   
 
  icswebmaster