Women in Information and Computer Sciences
					
				
				A student organization at UCI dedicated to helping women succeed in the technological world
			
					
		
	
	
			
			
			PreviousNext
		
			
		
				
			
		
	
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
		
				
					
	
	
					
			

			
			  				Skip to content
								HomeWICS News
Events CalendarWeekly Blogsinit (together)
Join Us!
Membership Signup
	Apply to WICS Committee
Mentorship ProgramProject Development
	Web Development Projects (Fall 2013)Android App Projects (Winter 2014)PowerPoint Slides

About WICS
What We DoCurrent Officers
	Previous Officers

Contact Us
Contact FormSupport Us
			
		
	

	

		
			

			

				
					? Week 4: Capgemini’s “Women in Consulting Night” (w/ SWE & ICSSC)
					Week 6: Southern California Gas Company Info Session ?
				

				
					Week 5: Women in Technology Talk by Northrop Grumman

					
						Posted on 11/03/2013 by Angela Liu					

					
						Cecilia Rubio came to talk to WICS about her journey into the world of IT as a woman on Wednesday, October 30th. Over 20 people came to learn about what it is like to work in Northrop Grumman, a leading global security company, and how Cecilia always presented herself as prepared and motivational, leading her to multiple job and internship opportunities. Being confident and overachieving is key to staying employed and possibly promoted in a company. Benefits that a company offer and its work environment is very important when looking for jobs, being happy in your future job is always the number one priority! Northrop Grumman offers many benefits for employees and is now hiring!
Don’t worry if you missed out, there are more opportunities in the future, stay updated with WICS’s events!
WICS would also like to thank all the people that came to this event even though they had midterms!
     « prev      1   2      next »  (6 Photos)
											


					
						This entry was posted in Info Session. Bookmark the permalink.											
				

				
					? Week 4: Capgemini’s “Women in Consulting Night” (w/ SWE & ICSSC)
					Week 6: Southern California Gas Company Info Session ?
				

				
			



		



			
		


		
			
				
					Search for:
					
					
				
						
			
			
								Announcements				
				Job Opportunities Subscription If you want to receive information about job opportunities sign up at http://goo.gl/ZHqJ4f.

			
			Upcoming Events
	

								
				
					Week 7: ICS Day
				

								

				
				
					May 14 @ 8:00 am - 5:00 pm				

				

			

								
				
					Week 9: ICS Potluck
				

								

				
				
					May 27 @ 7:00 pm - 9:00 pm				

				

			

	
		View All Events
	

			Recent Posts		
				WICS Receives NCWIT Seed Fund!
							02/11/2015
						
				Adobe Info Session
							02/03/2015
						
		
		


		
			Blog Posts CategoriesSelect Categoryinit (together)  (1)News  (60)   Info Session  (13)   Social Event  (12)   Tour  (3)   WICS Meeting  (14)      Project Meeting  (3)   Workshop  (15)



Follow Us!			
		
	
						
							
						
					
						
							
						
					
						
							
						
					
						
							
						
					

			
		
		

	

	
		



			

				
								Questions or comments? Contact us
		
				




			

			
				
					Women in Information and Computer Sciences				
			

			
				Copyright © 2015 WICS				Proudly powered by WordPress.