Toggle navigation
		                
		                
		                
		            

				
					
						
					

				
				
		        
					Events 
Med AppJam 2014Reverse Career Fair (RCF)ICS Day 2014
 About 
Mission & VissionGet InvolvedExecutive OfficersExec Board Portal
Contact UsCalendar of EventsICS Clubs					
		    
		  
			
			
		
	

	

			
											

		
			
				
	
		

		
			
				
					mission				
							

						
				

	
				
			 				
		
			

				ICSSC Treasurer

								
					 August 6, 2014April 30, 2015  Dalton Kraatz				Leave a comment
				
				
				
							

						

					Hello ICS! My name is Dalton Kraatz, and I am the new treasurer for the School of ICS’s Student Council.
As treasurer, its my duty to make sure that everyone who wins prizes at ICSSC competitions get their prizes on time, as well as making sure we have budgets and money to pay for the events. The cost of things from food to venue to even the very popular ICS Day dunk tank gets handled by treasurers like me.
In addition to payments, I also manage fundraising for future events. If any of you remember the delicious Nutella Pumpkin Cheesecakes we had in Fall Quarter last year, I will be in charge of organizing and running those events. I want to have more delicious treats on campus to enjoy all year round. We live in a boba central, and I’m sure everyone’s tired of hearing about and drinking watery $2 boba all year. Lets do something fresh, like Peppermint Hot Chocolate at Christmas or refreshing lemonades before Winter finals! Lets change as our classes do, and as the mercury rises and falls its 2 degrees a year.
But, my goal is to connect students to their dreams. When I first started at Student Council, I was skeptic. I started my first year going to about 5 clubs a week, but at the end, I learned more from ICSSC than any other club out there. I hope that you all do as well, and find a passion in something unexpected! I hope that with this change in leadership and student body, the school grows in notoriety as the school that connects people to their passions.
So, study up, write a plan, make an app, meet a new company, or learn something new with us this year! We always have our doors open to everyone, not just those inside ICS!
Have a wonderful summer, and we hope to see you at the Anteater Involvement Fair!


				Read More

							
					
	


			
				

	
				
			 				
		
			

				Welcome to ICS Student Council

								
					 July 24, 2014January 22, 2015  Delian Petrov				Leave a comment
				
				
				
							

						

					
ALL ICS Students • Mondays @ 7:00pm-8:00pm • ICS Room 432 • WHY: We all know the ICS Community is more divided than it should be! It’s hard to figure out what’s going on in ICS. So, to bring us all together and make sure that things like ICS Day and Reverse Career Fair are lasting, we’re changing this group!
Everyone is welcome to participate!
Our Mission
To improve student life of the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences academically, socially, and professionally by creating and deepening the bonds between students, faculty, administration, companies, and alumni of the ICS School as well as similar groups outside of the Information and Computer Sciences.
Our Vision
We believe that through a strong community, we will enhance the quality of student life and ensure great jobs for students of all majors and minors within the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Science by:
Understanding, disseminating, and contributing to departmental decisions including curriculum, research, and hiring decisionsCreating a network of alumni which will provide students with opportunities to grow while in school, and opportunities after graduation to leverage that growthProvide one another with tools and opportunities to become the most competitive technical experts in the worldDeveloping nontechnical skills such as leadership, team building, and advocacy outside of the classroom that will ultimately determine success in the rest of our careersInforming students about the immense opportunities that are available on the UC Irvine campus, in the neighboring community, and throughout the worldCreating partnerships between the academics of our campus and the related industries

				Read More

							
					
	


			
			
		
		
	


	
		
						
  
    
      
        
        
          
        
      
    
  
Subscribe to our newsletter
    Name:
    

	Email address: 
	



	
Follow us
    
    


    

    


		Upcoming ICS Events
BackNext
No events to display.		
	
			
		
	


	
		
			
				
	
	
				
			

LoginRegister
		
		
		
						
		

		
			
				
										
											
					
						ICS Student Council  All rights reserved.						Theme by Colorlib Powered by WordPress