» About

                    
                    » About the School» Bren ICS Mission» Dean's Welcome» About the Bren Gift» Facts and Figures» Donald Bren Hall» Visit the Bren School» Contact Us» Equity & Diversity               
                
                
                    » Departments
                    

                    » Computer Science» Informatics» Statistics               
                
                
                    » Research
                
                
                    » Research Areas» Research Centers» Research Highlights
                
                
                    » Education
                    

                    » Graduate
                        
                            Prospective StudentsPrograms of StudyM.S. Degree OverviewPh.D. Degree OverviewAcademic Year PlanFormsPoliciesFunding & HousingComputing SupportCampus ResourcesVisit the Bren SchoolGraduate Student Handbook

                        » Undergraduate
                        
                            Academic AdvisingAcademic Year PlanPetitionsICS MajorsICS MinorsPolicies: Academic IntegrityPolicies: Academic StandingPolicies: Add, drop, & change optionsPolicies: Coursework outside UCIPolicies: Grade policyPolicies: Laptop & computer usePolicies: Withdrawal/ReadmissionGraduationICS Student LifeComputing Support
                        » Prospective Undergrad» UCI Parents               
                
                    
                    » People                      
                    
                
                    » Faculty» Staff» Graduate Students   
                 
                
                    » Community
                    
                    
                    » Alumni» Friends» Parent Programs» Leadership Council» Make a Gift» News   
                
                
                    » Get Involved
                
                
                    » Tech Talks» Information Sessions» Sponsor Projects» Leadership Council» Corporate Partners» Sponsor Interns» Tech Jobs» Butterworth Competition               
                






            




    










    

Bren school home > Graduate > Degrees


  
Graduate Program in Informatics











The PhD in Informatics prepares students to apply a variety of technical and social approaches to understand fundamental human and digital experiences and to design transformative solutions to a variety of human, organizational, and social challenges. A fundamental focus of our research is a dual view of information technology -- as a technical object and as a cultural object. From a technical perspective, we are concerned with the design and analysis of advanced information technologies and digital media. But we understand these too as objects that embody social values, shape human experiences, and carry cultural meaning. Our interests lie in the relationship between these two aspects of interactive technology.

The PhD in Informatics incorporates four connected emphases: an empirical focus that emphasizes understanding of technology design and use in practice; a theoretical focus aimed at understanding contexts of information system use; a technological focus aimed at new capabilities and infrastructures; and a design focus that includes integrative and holistic consideration of technical and human considerations. Students in the PhD program engage with multiple stakeholders, including faculty and researchers in other disciplines, major corporations and entrepreneurial enterprises, governmental and non-governmental agencies, and volunteer organizations such as open source communities. Through our involvement with these organizations, our research connects to the world beyond the university. 

Admission to Graduate Programs in Informatics

Students applying to the program may have degrees in any field, though preference will generally be given to those with a technical or social science background.

Doctor of Philosophy in Informatics

All PhD students are expected to maintain a minimum GPA of 3.5 throughout the program. In addition, no grade lower than B is counted towards satisfying any course requirements.


Pre-Candidacy Course Requirements 
Required Core Courses 
INF 261: Social Analysis of Computing 
INF 232: Research in Human Computer Interaction 
INF 209S: Seminar in Informatics (twice, usually in first year) 

Research Methods Core 
INF 201: Research Methods 
INF 203: Qualitative Methods 
INF 205: Quantitative Methods 
INF 207S: Doctoral Seminar on Research and Writing (twice, usually after first year) 

Research Experience
INF 299 (Independent Study): Four quarters required pre-advancement, recommended at least two quarters per year in each of the first two years.  


Electives in Informatics  (6 Ph.D. level classes) 
A set of six elective courses. The selection of courses should form a coherent educational plan to be approved by the student’s faculty advisor and by the Informatics PhD program director. A written record of this plan and its approval must be filed with the PhD program director prior to advancement. Although the courses may be chosen from any PhD level courses on campus, it is recommended that at least three be chosen from within the school of ICS.

Teaching Requirements

To enhance their education and experience in teaching, all students will be required to work as readers or TAs for at least two quarters. Additionally, before or during the first quarter in which they are working in this capacity, all students will enroll in ICS 398A, a two-unit seminar. Those students wishing to gain more instruction around their teaching may also enroll in ICS 398B, the advanced teaching seminar, which is also a two-unit seminar.

Field Examinations

There will be no formal field evaluations. However, each year, students will be evaluated individually and given written feedback about their progress (for first year students, this evaluation will take place before the end of Spring quarter; for continuing students, it will take place before the end of Fall quarter.)  In preparation, students will write a statement about their progress and meet with their advisors who give some feedback and complete a form reporting their assessment of the student’s progress. The program faculty as a whole will then meet to discuss all the students, with a letter written to the student summarizing the assessment and, if necessary, deadlines for specific activities to be finished or goals to be achieved. This evaluation letter will state either that the student is making good progress or has been given cautionary status. The students who have certain activities to finish will be reviewed again 6 months after this evaluation.  A second cautionary review constitutes formal failure to make adequate progress within the program.

Qualifying Exams
At the end of the student’s second year: The student develops an appropriate reading list to fit his/her areas of interest within Informatics, co-developed with the advisor.  The student then writes a paper synthesizing this literature and noting the areas that are currently interesting and under-researched. The paper serves as the basis for an oral examination, generally in the Spring quarter of the second year.

At the end of the third year:  
The student will be evaluated by an assessment of a research portfolio.  A portfolio should comprise three papers of publishable quality, as judged by the faculty.  These papers might well be expansions or developments from term papers developed in class; the goal is to determine the student’s capacity to produce research writing of publishable quality. Student may work on papers collaboratively, but the portfolio as a whole must demonstrate writing ability through single-authored or lead-authored work.  (Collaboratively written papers will be accompanied by a statement of contributions signed by all authors.)
The students are encouraged to report on projects conducted with at least two different faculty members.  Advancement to candidacy is on the basis of an oral defense of the research portfolio, normally in the Spring of the third year. The advancement committee is formed in accordance with UCI campus regulations.

Doctoral Dissertation

Students are required to complete a doctoral dissertation in accordance with Academic Senate regulations.  In addition, they must pass an oral dissertation defense that consists of a public presentation of the student’s research followed by an oral examination by the student’s doctoral committee. The dissertation must be approved unanimously by the committee.  

Final Examination

The dissertation defense committee is formed in accordance to UCI Senate regulations. This committee must approve the following for the student to pass the final examination:


Dissertation topic: The student must present a substantial written document representing the student’s dissertation plan.  This document must include the proposed dissertation abstract, a dissertation outline, a comprehensive survey of related work, and a detailed plan for completing the work.  The student must present this dissertation plan to the dissertation committee, who must unanimously approve the student’s proposal. 


Dissertation document: The student must prepare the written dissertation in accordance with Academic Senate regulations and present this document to the committee with enough advance notice for appropriate review and critique prior to an oral defense. Following an oral defense of this document, any changes required must be approved by the entire committee.


Oral defense: The student must pass an oral dissertation defense that consists of a public presentation of the student’s research followed by an oral examination by the student’s doctoral committee. To ensure the public has an opportunity to participate in this examination, the student must announce the defense title, date, and time at least two weeks prior to the event to all faculty and doctoral students in the department.  

Normative Time from Matriculation to Degree

Students making normal progress are expected to complete their coursework and produce 2-3 research papers of publishable quality in three years.  The dissertation proposal is expected midway through the fourth year, with completion in the fifth.







More Graduate »
Prospective studentsPrograms of study
M.S. degree overviewPh.D. degree overview
Academic year planFormsPoliciesFunding & housingComputing supportCampus resourcesVisit the Bren SchoolGraduate Student Handbook
Copyright Inquiries |
   UCI Directory |
   Intranet |
   
   
 
  icswebmaster