Toggle navigation
		                
		                
		                
		            

				
					
						
					

				
				
		        
					Events 
Med AppJam 2014Reverse Career Fair (RCF)ICS Day 2014
 About 
Mission & VissionGet InvolvedExecutive OfficersExec Board Portal
Contact UsCalendar of EventsICS Clubs					
		    
		  
			
			
		
	

	

			
											

		
			
				
	
		

		
			

		
		

			Reverse Career Fair

			
				 August 31, 2014November 23, 2014  Delian Petrov
								
					 Uncategorized				
								
			
		

		
			
A Different & Interactive Type of Career Fair where YOU will be given a chance to show your work to top companies! Hungry for opportunities, join today! Where you are more than a line in a resume!
The ICS Student Council Reverse Career Fair gives students a chance to highlight their technical skills by showcasing their projects to company recruiters. We give students a booth to set up their projects and have companies walk around and have a more casual one-to-one interaction. These projects range from traditional computer science topics such as artificial intelligence, database design, and operating systems to newer technologies such as AJAX, social networking, web application development, new software development life cycles, and business analytics.
Need an easier way to get a hold of companies?
Got a project you’d like to show off? Would you like to be hired by top IT Companies? If you answered yes to any of these questions, come participate at the Reverse Career Fair! Our last Reverse Career Fair was very successful, as a few people now have jobs from the companies that attended this event. At the Reverse Career Fair students will show off their projects in a fair-style setting as company representatives browse around and check out the displays.
WHEN: Thursday, October 23, 2014
WHERE: The UCI Student Center Doheny Beach A
 
Ready to sign-up?
Checkout the website at http://ucirversecareerfair.com to sign up!
					

		

	    	
		
	
				
	        
	        

	          
	          
	              	          
	          

	          
	          

	            Delian Petrov
	            
	                	            

	          
	          

	        
	        
			


			

    




				
		Post navigation
		
			 Med AppJam 2014ICSSC’s First General Meeting of Fall 2014! 		
	
	
		
		
	


	
		
						
  
    
      
        
        
          
        
      
    
  
Subscribe to our newsletter
    Name:
    

	Email address: 
	



	
Follow us
    
    


    

    


		Upcoming ICS Events
BackNext
No events to display.		
	
			
		
	


	
		
			
				
	
	
				
			

LoginRegister
		
		
		
						
		

		
			
				
										
											
					
						ICS Student Council  All rights reserved.						Theme by Colorlib Powered by WordPress