Women in Information and Computer Sciences
					
				
				A student organization at UCI dedicated to helping women succeed in the technological world
			
					
		
	
	
			
			
			PreviousNext
		
			
		
				
			
		
	
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
		
				
					
	
	
					
			

			
			  				Skip to content
								HomeWICS News
Events CalendarWeekly Blogsinit (together)
Join Us!
Membership Signup
	Apply to WICS Committee
Mentorship ProgramProject Development
	Web Development Projects (Fall 2013)Android App Projects (Winter 2014)PowerPoint Slides

About WICS
What We DoCurrent Officers
	Previous Officers

Contact Us
Contact FormSupport Us
			
		
	

	

		
			

			

				
					? Beginning of the Quarter General Meeting
					Letter of Recommendation Workshop ?
				

				
					WICS hosts a Toy Hacking Workshop

					
						Posted on 01/28/2013 by admin					

					
						
				
			
				
			
				
			
				
			
				
			
				
			
				
			
				
			
				
			
				
			
				
			
				
			
		

On Monday, January 14th, WICS hosted a Toy Hacking Workshop Training with Dr. Garnet Hertz. Over 20 people attended with bags full of toys to break open!
This workshop was intended to train students who were interested in being involved in a similar workshop for kids in elementary and middle schools! It was an entertaining introduction to electronics, as the attendees ripped apart electronic toys and hacked around with the toys’ music devices.
Highlights of this event were: playing around with resistors to activate a sound, seeing Big Mouth Billy Base singing in different pitches and speeds,  cringing over the disturbing sight of the stripped down Dancing Hamster (“Everybody Dance Now!”).
Our members thought this event was really fun, and many of them expressed their wishes to learn more about toy hacking. As mentioned above, we plan to help host a workshop series with students in elementary and middle schools in the near future.
											


					
						This entry was posted in Workshop. Bookmark the permalink.											
				

				
					? Beginning of the Quarter General Meeting
					Letter of Recommendation Workshop ?
				

				
			



		



			
		


		
			
				
					Search for:
					
					
				
						
			
			
								Announcements				
				Job Opportunities Subscription If you want to receive information about job opportunities sign up at http://goo.gl/ZHqJ4f.

			
			Upcoming Events
	

								
				
					Week 7: ICS Day
				

								

				
				
					May 14 @ 8:00 am - 5:00 pm				

				

			

								
				
					Week 9: ICS Potluck
				

								

				
				
					May 27 @ 7:00 pm - 9:00 pm				

				

			

	
		View All Events
	

			Recent Posts		
				WICS Receives NCWIT Seed Fund!
							02/11/2015
						
				Adobe Info Session
							02/03/2015
						
		
		


		
			Blog Posts CategoriesSelect Categoryinit (together)  (1)News  (60)   Info Session  (13)   Social Event  (12)   Tour  (3)   WICS Meeting  (14)      Project Meeting  (3)   Workshop  (15)



Follow Us!			
		
	
						
							
						
					
						
							
						
					
						
							
						
					
						
							
						
					

			
		
		

	

	
		



			

				
								Questions or comments? Contact us
		
				




			

			
				
					Women in Information and Computer Sciences				
			

			
				Copyright © 2015 WICS				Proudly powered by WordPress.