Women in Information and Computer Sciences
					
				
				A student organization at UCI dedicated to helping women succeed in the technological world
			
					
		
	
	
			
			
			PreviousNext
		
			
		
				
			
		
	
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
			
			
				
										
					
			
							
			
			
						
				
		
				
					
	
	
					
			

			
			  				Skip to content
								HomeWICS News
Events CalendarWeekly Blogsinit (together)
Join Us!
Membership Signup
	Apply to WICS Committee
Mentorship ProgramProject Development
	Web Development Projects (Fall 2013)Android App Projects (Winter 2014)PowerPoint Slides

About WICS
What We DoCurrent Officers
	Previous Officers

Contact Us
Contact FormSupport Us
			
		
	

	

		
			

			

				
					? First Project Meeting by WICS
					Week 2: Broadcom Info Session ?
				

				
					Grace Hopper Celebration 2013

					
						Posted on 10/06/2013 by Angela Liu					

					
						From Oct. 1 to Oct 5, four of WICS’s board members who were sponsored by the Donald Bren School of ICS and Calit2, attended the annual Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing in Minneapolis, Minnesota. There were many workshops that ranged from important skills to know in the professional field to talking about video games and what companies are doing to improve them. The whole event was truly inspirational as there were more than 4600 attendees who all became supportive to each other in the technological field.
Not only did the members get to learn more about women in technology, they also got a chance to meet representatives of all the big technology related companies such as Microsoft, Google, Apple, Facebook, and many more at the career fair which was open every day during the celebration days. Resumes were given out and company swag was received. WICS will be giving out these swag items (shirts, stickers, car chargers, toys, bags, etc.) during the course of the year at our events! Many companies were also enthusiastic about coming to UC Irvine to present speeches and talk to the students more about women in the technology field as well as their company.
One of the members won “The Sims” limited addition game from the EA booth as well as a Kindle Fire from Amazon by entering a raffle after answering some engineering questions!
                         « prev      1   2   3   4      next »  (16 Photos)
WICS is hoping to sponsor more members to go to the celebration next year, which will be located at Phoenix, Arizona. Join the committee for a higher chance to attend and if you want to learn more, check out this years GHC website and more pictures posted on Facebook.
											


					
						This entry was posted in News. Bookmark the permalink.											
				

				
					? First Project Meeting by WICS
					Week 2: Broadcom Info Session ?
				

				
			



		



			
		


		
			
				
					Search for:
					
					
				
						
			
			
								Announcements				
				Job Opportunities Subscription If you want to receive information about job opportunities sign up at http://goo.gl/ZHqJ4f.

			
			Upcoming Events
	

								
				
					Week 7: ICS Day
				

								

				
				
					May 14 @ 8:00 am - 5:00 pm				

				

			

								
				
					Week 9: ICS Potluck
				

								

				
				
					May 27 @ 7:00 pm - 9:00 pm				

				

			

	
		View All Events
	

			Recent Posts		
				WICS Receives NCWIT Seed Fund!
							02/11/2015
						
				Adobe Info Session
							02/03/2015
						
		
		


		
			Blog Posts CategoriesSelect Categoryinit (together)  (1)News  (60)   Info Session  (13)   Social Event  (12)   Tour  (3)   WICS Meeting  (14)      Project Meeting  (3)   Workshop  (15)



Follow Us!			
		
	
						
							
						
					
						
							
						
					
						
							
						
					
						
							
						
					

			
		
		

	

	
		



			

				
								Questions or comments? Contact us
		
				




			

			
				
					Women in Information and Computer Sciences				
			

			
				Copyright © 2015 WICS				Proudly powered by WordPress.