Zhijing (Gene) Qin
 
	
	Ph.D Candidate
	
		
		Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Science,
	
		
		University of California Irvine, USA.
	


 






Home
Education
Publication
Projects
Experiences
Honor and Awards
Contact






Projects


•MINA: A Multinetwork INformation Architecure  (September, 2010-present)
Exploit connectivities via heterogeneous network access technologies (i.e. 802.11, blue tooth, cellular, etc.) and maintain network state information of multiple networks. We are trying to build up a real system that first organize nodes equipped with multiple network inferfaces and then collect the state information of nodes and links in the multinetwork environment in an efficient and timely manner. Various kinds of analysis and reasoning can be done on the network state information hence acutuation and control on flow level can be performed to get global optimization. 


•Predictive, Formal Analysis of Heterogeneous Networks (June, 2012-September, 2012)
Those dynamic and heterogeneous network environment in MINA raise new reliability and dependability issues. Traditional network analysis
approaches only focus on static network static attributes and do not fully consider the impact of failures on quality of services (QoS)across 
flows. In this project, we design and implement a "what-if" analysis methodology using formal methods(Maude). Our methodology analyses the impact of failuresand changes in heterogeneous networks on QoS of flows.


•Formal analysis on network properties  (June, 2011-September, 2011)
We use Maude to specify both wired network and hybrid networks (wireless and wired), and analysis faults existed in the data flow
going through the network. We also use Maude to verify the data aggregation algorithms in a hybrid network environment.
Three use cases are developed: Brake-By-Wire, Camera-Surveillance and Message Aggregation. Reports will be updated.



•Wireless Music Ensemble (September, 2009-July, 2010)
In this adaptive distributed wireless sound system, a set of single-board computers equipped with speakers act as a music band in which each 
member plays a different instrument or vocal chord of a song. According to localizing the origin of a special sound such as hand-clapping, the
 system knows where the audience is. It is then possible to compensate for the undesirable effects of the sound propagation in the air for this
  particular target listener. A highly optimized music experience to the listener can be offered. 

•NTRS (Network Traffic Recognition System) (September, 2008-March, 2009)
NTRS is a FSM-based traffic identification system, integrating all kinds of traffic identification algorithms together to improve 
identification accuracy. The system uses the NTRS language and FSM to describe traffic identification algorithms and its identification
 process. Experimental results show that the system has great flexibility and scalability. System performance meets online packets
  processing requirements well.