Java Download and Installation Instructions





You may want to print these instructions before proceeding, so that you can
  refer to them while downloading and installing Java.
Or, just keep this document in your browser.
You should read each step completely before performing the action that it
  describes.
This document shows downloading and installing Java on Windows 7 in Fall 2013.



Java

The following instructions were composed for installing Sun Java 1.7.0_40
  (aka Java SE Development Kit (JDK) 7, Update 40).
The version you download may be newer.
Note: Java is already installed as part of Mac OS X, so no further installation
  is necessary if you have recently purchased one of these machines.
You can determine whether you have the right version by typing

  java -version

to the unix command prompt on Mac OS X;
the response should be something like java version "1.7.0_40"; it does
  not have to be this exact update.


The Java download requires about 1 MB of disk space; keep it on your machine,
  in case you need to reinstall Java.
When installed, Java requires about an additional 290 MB of disk space.


Downloading

Click
    
      Java Downloads.
    
    The following page will appear in your browser.
    
    


Click the Free Java Download red button.
    
    The following page will appear in your browser.
    
    
    
    The page should indicate your Operating System: here in red, beneath
      the banner, it says Download Java for Windows.


Click the Agree and Start Free Download red button.
    If you are asked Do you want to run or save JavaSetup7u40.exe from
      sdlc-esd.sun.com click Save
    
    This file should start downloading into your standard download folder.
    This file is under 1 Mb so it should download quickly.
    
    The file should appear as either
    
    
    
    or maybe (if you downloaded using the Chrome browser)
    
    
    
    Terminate the window browsing the Java download page.


Move this file to a more permanent location, so that you can install Java
      (and reinstall it later, if necessary).



    Start the Installing instructions directly below.




Installing
Double click the JavaSetup-7u40.exe or chromeinstall-7u40.exe
      whichever file you just downloaded and moved.
    
    In a few seconds a pop-up window titled User Account Control will
      appear, posing the question Do you want the following program to
      install software on this computer?
    
    


Click the Yes button.
    
    A Java Setup - Welcome pop-up window will appear.
    
    


Click the Install > button.
    
    A Downloading Java Installer pop-up window will appear.
    
    
    
    A green progress bar will appear, showing the progress as it downloads
      the Java Installer, and will finally disappear
     (on my machine this took about 30 seconds).
    
    A Java Setup pop-up window may appear; do not worry if this
      pop-up window does not appear and skip step 4).
    
    
    
    You can uncheck or leave checked the checkboxes.


Click the Next > button.
    
    A Java Setup - Progress pop-up window will appear, with the 
      following message at the top of the window:
        Status: Installing Java
    
    
    

    A Java Setup - Complete pop-up window will appear.
    
    
    


Click Close.
    
    A browser will appear, with a red Verify Java version button.
    
    


Either terminate this browser or
     click the red Verify Java version button.

The installed files are typically stored (in Windows) in the folder
  C:\Program Files\Java or   C:\Program Files (x86)\Java.
Inside this folder should be the folder: jre7, which itself should
  contain a bin and lib folder, and some miscellaneous .txt
  and a Welcome.html file.

You may now follow the instructions to download and install Python and/or the
  Eclipse IDE (for Python, Java, or both).
Note: you you need to download/install Java even if you are using Eclipse only
  for Python)