 
          
    
            

      
              

        
                
                
      

              
    

          
          
           
        
        
           
          
            
              
            
          
          


          
            
              
            
          
          


          
            
              
                Software Engineering at UC Irvine
              
            
          
          


          
            
          
        
        
           
          
            
              
                The software-engineering faculty and research program at U.C. Irvine are ranked as one of the best in the world. Software faculty have been involved in numerous major grant-funded research efforts, including several current projects receiving significant federal funding from agencies such as the National Science Foundation (NSF). Software faculty also conduct research projects in cooperation with local industry and have been awarded numerous UC MICRO grants. We maintain connections to software research groups elsewhere in the University of California system, across the country, and around the world. Our active research center, the Institute for Software Research (ISR), facilitates these collaborations around the world.
                
                Software has transformed society in dramatic and powerful ways. From the World Wide Web to pilotless vehicles to spreadsheets, software systems inform, control, and enhance daily activities. Software-engineering research at UCI is aimed at creating new software technology and solutions, furthering the information revolution.
                
                The home department of the Software Engineering Research Group at UC Irvine is the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of ICS. Additionally, the Software Engineering Research Group also includes researchers in other schools and departments across campus — the organization by which we collaborate across campus, with researchers at other universities, and with industry is the Institute for Software Research.
              
            
          
          


          
            
          
           
        
        
           