Alegria Baquero

		Advisor: Prof. Richard N. Taylor
Information and Computer Science
University of California, Irvine
abaquero[at]uci[dot]edu

.:Home:. .:CV:..:Resume:.
			
						Research Projects
						Education
						Publications
						Work experience
						Teaching
						Awards
					
		


			
				
						
			In December 2014 I received my PhD in Informatics at the University of California, Irvine. I am also a member of the Institute of Software Research. My advisor is Professor Richard N. Taylor.
			
			My research interests are in Software Architecture and Design, specifically in the evolving and decentralized architecture of Internet-based applications, with focus in the e-commerce and healthcare domains. My dissertation work, entitled "COAST Services: Achieving Service Customization and Policy-Based Differential Access in Personal Information Systems", focuses on access control for information systems in which formal policies describe the conditions for information disclosure and which at the same time define the trust relationships among the relevant parties. These services are not only personalized for particular information consumers, but are also customizable, therefore they allow using the bestowed capabilities to fit individual users' needs. The enabling technologies are the COAST architectural style and formal policy languages which describe information disclosure and capability use conditions.
			
			Previous work is on the qualitative evaluation of e-commerce architectures, on the integration of e-commerce components—negotiation, contracts, and workflow—and to follow, the experimentation with the COAST infrastructure (refer to projects section) for implementing application prototypes.
			
			In addition, I am interested in the privacy and access control domains, with focus on both user- and provider-oriented privacy-preserving and security techniques for personalized information services. I had the opportunity of doing research in these areas during summer internships at Bloomberg L.P (New York, NY, June-September 2014) and at CommerceNet (Palo Alto, June-August 2012) with respect to intra- and inter-organizational services and medical information systems respectively.