CompSci 260: Fundamentals of the Design and Analysis of Algorithms

 Class Meetings (Fall 2014)
     Lecture:   M W 9:30-10:50am in ICS 180


    

   Instructor
     Professor Dan Hirschberg -- dan (at) ics.uci.edu
                office hours by appointment in DBH 4226

       Reader :    
            Dmitri Arkhipov -- darkhipo (at) uci.edu
    

   Prerequisites
     an undergraduate algorithms course
    

   Add/Drop Policy
     Adds/drops handled through Registrar's WebReg system until end of week 1
     No adds/drops allowed after the first week of classes
    

   Textbook
     Required: Kleinberg and Tardos,
           Algorithm Design,
           Addison Wesley, 2006.
      
The course will cover the first eight chapters of this book,
along with a small number of supplementary readings.

    

   List of Topics
        The following schedule is approximate
            and may change over the course of the quarter.
     Week 1: Introduction. The Stable marriage problem. [KT Chapter 1]
       Week 1: Basics of Algorithm Analysis. [KT Chapter 2]
       Week 2: Basics of Graph Algorithms. [KT Chapter 3]
       Week 3-4: Greedy Algorithms. Shortest Paths. Minimum Spanning Trees. [KT Chapter 4]
       Week 5: Divide and Conquer, part 1. [KT Sections 5.1-5.5]
       Week 6: Divide and Conquer, part 2. [KT Sections 5.6, 13.5]. Dynamic Programming, part 1. [KT Sections 6.1-6.3]
       Week 7: Dynamic Programming, part 2. [KT Sections 6.4-6.9]
       Week 8: Network Flow. [KT Sections 7.1-7.7]
       Week 9: Intro to Linear Programming [Notes to be provided]. NP-completeness, part 1. [KT Sections 8.1-8.2]
       Week 10: NP-completeness, part 2. [KT Sections 8.3-8.5]
    

   Notes (user name is your UCI ID name in ALL CAPS, password is your student number)
        Students are responsible for all material covered
            in lecture and the relevant portions of the
            textbook, even if it does not appear in the lecture notes.
     Lecture Slides

       A paper relevant to NP-completeness:
          tutorial on complexity
         

    
   Requirements
     homework

       two midterms

-- tentatively scheduled during weeks 4 and 8
       final exam

-- W of week 11, 8-10am
    

   Homework assignments

   Masters Comprehensive Exam
     This course may be used as part of the Comprehensive Exam in the
          computer science masters program.  To pass the Comprehensive Exam,
          students must obtain an A- or better on the 260 Final Exam.
       Students who wish to take the Comprehensive Exam but
          are not enrolled in the course should contact me by email before
          the end of week 2 of the quarter to reserve a seat in the exam.
          Include your full name, UCI Student ID #,
          and which quarter you were previously enrolled in CompSci 260.
          Send the request from your UCI email account (to prevent identity theft).
          Students without reservations will not be permitted to sit for the exam.
    

   Academic Dishonesty

     Instances of academic dishonesty will be reflected
           in the final grade (usually an F) because dishonesty devalues
           the learning experience for the whole class.
           Additional consequences may occur at the academic unit or the campus level.
       Examples of academic dishonesty include, but are not limited to:
           copying from others during an examination
             communicating exam answers with other students during an examination
             using unauthorized materials during an examination
             allowing another student to copy off your work during an  examination
             tampering with an examination after it has been corrected,  then returning it for more credit
          
       For more complete information about academic honesty policies,
           consult the
          
          Academic Senate Policy on Academic Honesty
    

   Communication
       If you send me email with course-related questions:
	 include the string "CompSci 260:" at the start of the subject line
	   include your name and UCI Student ID number in the message
	   if you are not writing from your official UCI email address,
	       please cc your official UCI email address
	
	 (This protocol enables me to weed out requests for help
              on problems from non-UCI students.)




Last modified: Dec 17, 2014